----------------------------------------------------------------------

            ICFP 2020, THE 25TH ACM SIGPLAN INTERNATIONAL
                 CONFERENCE ON FUNCTIONAL PROGRAMMING
                     https://icfp20.sigplan.org/

                       August 23 - 28, 2020 
                       Jersey City, NJ, US

                        WORKSHOP PROPOSAL FORM

    Note: for workshops that were affiliated with ICFP in 2019, a copy
    of last year's completed proposal form can be obtained for
    reference, by emailing icfp-workshops-2020@googlegroups.com.

----------------------------------------------------------------------

NAME OF THE WORKSHOP: Haskell Implementors' Workshop

GOALS OF THE WORKSHOP: To bring together implementors of the Haskell
language to discuss future directions in the language and their
implications on compiler and tooling design.

ORGANIZERS OF THE WORKSHOP:

   (Please complete the following table for each organizer.)

   Name    : Ben Gamari
   Address : 117 Middle Rd. Apt. B
   Email   : ben@well-typed.com
   Phone   : N/A
   Mobile  : +1 603 380 8585

NAMES OF POTENTIAL PROGRAM COMMITTEE MEMBERS, WITH AFFILIATIONS:

   See attached.

OTHER POTENTIAL ATTENDEES:

   Historically HIW has been attended by a large cross-section of the
   Haskell community. In addition to implementors a large number of
   commercial and non-commercial Haskell users have often been present,
   making this venue a great opportunity to exchange ideas between
   implementors' and their users.

PLANS FOR THE CALL FOR PAPERS / PARTICIPATION:

   The call for participation will go out in May 2020 via the usual
   Haskell community mailing lists.

   Rough timeline:

    * CFP towards early May; a second CFP sent out at early June

    * Deadline for contributions early-July;

    * Online PC meeting shortly after the submission deadline;

    * Notification to speakers towards the middle of July
      (we aim to stay before the early registration deadline).

EXPECTED NUMBER OF ATTENDEES:

   Judging from the past few years estimates and the fact that the
   workshop has at time been standing-room only, a capacity of 90 would
   likely be sufficient.

PLANNED LENGTH OF THE WORKSHOP:

   One full conference day.

PLANS FOR PUBLICITY:

   The workshop will be announced on a variety of Haskell mailing lists
   including ghc-devs@haskell.org, glasgow-haskell-users@haskell.org,
   and haskell@haskell.org. We will also make mention of the it on the
   GHC blog.

PLANS FOR A PUBLISHED PROCEEDINGS:

   No proceedings will be published.

PREVIOUS VERSIONS OF THE WORKSHOP:

   Name                      : Haskell Implementors Workshop (HIW2019)
   Dates                     : 23 August 2019
   Location                  : Berlin, Germany
   Organizers                : Niki Vazou
   Website                   :
https://icfp19.sigplan.org/track/hiw-2019-papers
   Number of submissions     : Information not currently available
   Number of accepted papers : 12 accepted talks
   Registered attendees      : N.A.
   Actual attendees          : Approximately 100 attendees
   Budget information        : handled by ACM, co-located with ICFP

   Name                      : Haskell Implementors Workshop (HIW2018)
   Dates                     : 23 September 2018
   Location                  : St Louis, USA
   Organizers                : Joachim Breitner
   Website                   :
https://icfp18.sigplan.org/track/hiw-2018-papers
   Number of submissions     : 12
   Number of accepted papers : 8 x 25 min session + 7 lightning talks
   Registered attendees      : N/A, 149 registered for the Sunday
   Actual attendees          : AM 49, PM 51
   Budget information        : handled by ACM, co-located with ICFP

   Name                      : Haskell Implementors Workshop (HIW2017)
   Dates                     : 9 September 2017
   Location                  : Oxford, UK
   Organizers                : Richard Eisenberg
   Website                   : https://icfp17.sigplan.org/track/hiw-2017
   Number of submissions     : 13
   Number of accepted papers : 11 x 25/30 min session + lightning talks
   Registered attendees      : 77
   Actual attendees          : AM 74, PM 77
   Budget information        : handled by ACM, co-located with ICFP

   Name                      : Haskell Implementors Workshop (HIW2016)
   Dates                     : 24 September
   Location                  : Nara, Japan
   Organizers                : Edward Z. Yang
   Website                   :
https://wiki.haskell.org/HaskellImplementorsWorkshop/2016
   Number of submissions     : 12
   Number of accepted papers : 9 25min talks + 3 lightning talks submitted
in advance
   Number of attendees       : registered: 72 in AM, 67 in PM. By 5 head
counts during day: 64, 71, 96, 63, 67
   Registration fee          : ICFP workshop day pass (standard price $150)
   Budget information        : handled by ACM, co-located with ICFP

   Name                      : Haskell Implementors Workshop (HIW2015)
   Dates                     : 30 August
   Location                  : Vancouver, Canada
   Organizers                : Josef Svenningsson
   Website                   :
https://wiki.haskell.org/HaskellImplementorsWorkshop/2015
   Number of submissions     : 13
   Number of accepted papers : 10 x 25-30min session + 7 lightning talks
   Number of attendees       : 63 (Aug 27 registration numbers)
   Registration fee          : ICFP workshop day pass (standard price $150)
   Budget information        : handled by ACM, co-located with ICFP

   Name                      : Haskell Implementors Workshop (HIW2014)
   Dates                     : 6 September
   Location                  : Gothenburg, Sweden
   Organizers                : Jost Berthold
   Website                   :
http://haskell.org/haskellwiki/HaskellImplementorsWorkshop/2014
   Number of submissions     : 15
   Number of accepted papers : 12 x 30 min session + 10 lightning talks
scheduled on the day
   Number of attendees       : 78
   Registration fee          : ICFP workshop day pass (standard price $165)
   Budget information        : handled by ACM, co-located with ICFP

   Name                      : Haskell Implementors Workshop (HIW2013)
   Dates                     : 22 September 2012
   Location                  : Boston, USA
   Organizers                : Ryan Newton
   Website                   :
http://haskell.org/haskellwiki/HaskellImplementorsWorkshop/2013
   Number of submissions     : 11
   Number of accepted papers : 10 x 30 min session + 4 lightning talks
scheduled on the day
   Number of attendees       : 48
   Registration fee          : ICFP workshop day pass (standard price $200)
   Budget information        : handled by ACM, co-located with ICFP

   Name                      : Haskell Implementors Workshop (HIW2012)
   Dates                     : 14 September 2012
   Location                  : Copenhagen, DK
   Organizers                : Gregory Collins, Johan Tibell
   Website                   :
http://haskell.org/haskellwiki/HaskellImplementorsWorkshop/2012
   Number of submissions     : 16
   Number of accepted papers : 10 x 30 min.talks + 11 lightning talks
scheduled on the day
   Number of attendees       : 91 (incl. on-site registration)
   Registration fee          : ICFP workshop day pass (standard price $200)
   Budget information        : handled by ACM, co-located with ICFP

   Name                      : Haskell Implementors Workshop (HIW2011)
   Dates                     : 23 September 2011
   Location                  : Tokyo, JP
   Organizers                : Ben Lippmeier, Neil Mitchell
   Website                   :
http://haskell.org/haskellwiki/HaskellImplementorsWorkshop/2011
   Number of submissions     : 11
   Number of accepted papers : 9 x 30 min session + 6 lightning talks
scheduled on the day
   Number of attendees       : 59 (incl. on-site registration)
   Registration fee          : $150 (standard price early registration)
   Budget information        : handled by ACM, co-located with ICFP

   Name                      : Haskell Implementors Workshop (HIW2010)
   Dates                     : October 1st 2010
   Location                  : Baltimore, USA
   Organizers                : Simon Marlow, Duncan Coutts
   Website                   :
http://haskell.org/haskellwiki/HaskellImplementorsWorkshop/2010
   Number of submissions     : 11 talk proposals
   Number of accepted papers : 10x 30 min pre-scheduled talks + 8x 5 min
lightning talks scheduled on the day.
   Number of attendees       : 42 (including on-site registrations)
   Registration fee          : $170 ACM, $200 non-ACM, $95 student.
                                  late registrants paid $200/$240/$110 USD.
   Budget information        : Total income $6380USD (~150 per attendee)
                               Expenses:
                                  Catering                $4410
                                  AV Cost                  $580
                                  ACM/SIGPLAN overhead    $1390

   Name                      : Haskell Implementors' Workshop (HIW2009)
   Dates                     : September 5th 2009
   Location                  : Edinburgh, UK
   Organizers                : Simon Marlow, Duncan Coutts
   Website                   :
http://haskell.org/haskellwiki/HaskellImplementorsWorkshop/2009
   Number of submissions     : 16 talk proposals
   Number of accepted papers : 11 talks
   Number of attendees       : 51 (not including on-site registrations)
   Registration fee          : $125 ACM, $150 non-ACM, $75 student,
                                  late registrants paid $150/$180/$90
   Budget information        : $95 per participant,
                                  plus 16% overhead going to ACM,
                                  plus a contingency buffer (15% of direct
costs)

WORKSHOP WEBSITE:

   Previously the workshop website has been hosted alongside the ICFP
   website (e.g. https://icfp19.sigplan.org/home/hiw-2019).

VIDEO RECORDING:

   Yes, we would like the event to be recorded. Historically there has
   been high interest in these talks in the Haskell user community, many
   of whom are unable to attend the conference.

ADDITIONAL INFORMATION:

   Ideally we would avoid HIW overlapping completely with Haskell
   Symposium. While I think the format of last year's final HIW-Symposium
   session could be improved, the idea of having a period where both groups
are
   in the same room is something worth preserving.

SUBMISSION INFORMATION:

   The deadline for workshop proposals is NOVEMBER 15, 2019,
   and the completed form should be emailed to the ICFP 2020
   workshop co-chairs (Jennifer Hackett and Leonidas Lampropoulos),
   via email to icfp-workshops-2020@googlegroups.com.

   Authors of workshop proposals will be notified of acceptance
   or rejection by DECEMBER 13, 2019.

   PLEASE NOTE:
   Organizers should await SIGPLAN approval of the included program
   committee membership prior to sending out PC invitations.

----------------------------------------------------------------------
